Docs 5646 improve navigability of policies section pa (#140)
mulesoft/docs-api-manager: modules/ROOT/pages/policies-policy-overview.adoc

= Policies Overview
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

Policies differ based on several different factors, such as level of granularity,types of policies, and policy categories. You must carefully review these factors, before you decide to implementation them in your environment. In this section, each of these factors are explained in detail. 

== Policy Components

A policy consists of the following components:

* YAML file
+
Defines the configurable parameters of the policy. Rendered by the UI to display the input of the policy.
+
* XML template
+
Contains the implementation of the policy.

> * Template's POM

Reviewer: Is it clear in the navigation that this is only for Mule 4? Mule 3 policies don't have a POM or a descriptor.

Author: Not clear! Made a note to discuss 1-1. Thanks!

Author: Done! Thanks!

+
Defines policy dependencies. Packaging type needs to be `mule-policy`.
* Resources
+
Optionally if the policy depends on other resources, such as a certificate, define resources as part of the policy.
+
* Mule-artifact.json descriptor
+
Specify the classifier as `mule-policy`.

For more information, see the header policy.

== Policy Scope

> Policies are isolated from the application and other policies. However, there are ways to expose information from a policy. The authentication information about a policy can be propagated in the Security Context Principal object.

Reviewer: @balbifm for future, we should add an example or link to an example here.

Author: Made a note! Thanks!

Author: Added a note in the file.

or after it in `operation` policies, those modifications are not propagated by default. To enable propagation of those modifications
you can enable the `propagateMessageTransformations` flag in each policy.

*Example*

----
<http-policy:proxy name="scope-payload">
    <http-policy:source propagateMessageTransformations="true">

        <http-policy:execute-next/>

    </http-policy:source>
    <http-policy:operation propagateMessageTransformations="true">

        <http-policy:execute-next/>

    </http-policy:operation>
</http-policy:proxy>
----

A policy can avoid the execution of the flow by not defining the `execute-next` or making sure that it is not reached (placing it in a choice, for example).

Variables set on a policy have only the scope of the policy. Also, variables defined in the flow, are not visible in policies.

== Policy Size

The size of a policy varies based on its dependencies. The first time Mule Runtime polls for policies it will take longer to fetch them. However, after policies are retrieved, they are cached on the file system. This ensures offline availability and also reduces latency to fetch policies.

== RAML and OAS-Based APIs

> [PA Why do we need this section. We have one about how to build RAML and OAS APIs.]

Reviewer: Because policies behavior will have an impact on the RAML and in many cases the user has to change it to reflect it. (until next year when we have a feature to automatically update it for them :) )

Author: Ok! Thanks for the explanation!

If your API exposes a RAML or OAS definition that users might need to reference, then the API definition must reliably detail every element that is expected in calls to your API. +
For example, applying a client ID-based policies implies that all requests coming to your API include a client ID and client Secret (by default expected as query parameters). You can prevent user requests from being rejected by creating a trait in the RAML root, and then referencing this trait in all API operations. 

Example: Create a trait that request APIs to provide Client ID and Client Secret paramters
[source,yaml,linenums]
----
traits:
  - client-id-required:
      queryParameters:
        client_id:
          type: string
        client_secret:
          type: string
----

> Ezampl: Apply the trait in API operationss:

Reviewer: Typo in Ezampl

Author: Fixed! Thanks!

[source,yaml,linenums]
----
/products:
  get:
    is: [client-id-required]
    description: Gets a list of all the inventory products.
----

> This section covers the following topics:

Reviewer: Is this empty?

Author: No, this was for See Also. Was trying a new format. But, I removed it for now.

> == See Also

Reviewer: There should be a link to policy types doc as well and categories since they are mentioned in the first paragraph

Author: Good point! Added links! Thanks!

= Policies Overview
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline
//where are we covering what a policy? What the policy does

> Policies differ based on several different factors, such as level of granularity,types of policies, and policy categories. You must carefully review these factors, before you decide to implementation them in your environment. In this section, each of these factors are explained in detail. 

Reviewer: I think the factors should be: category, purpose, version and configuration options.

Author: Done! Thanks!

// == Policy Components

// A policy consists of the following components:

// * YAML file
// +
// Defines the configurable parameters of the policy. Rendered by the UI to display the input of the policy.
// +
// * XML template
// +
// Contains the implementation of the policy.
// * Template's POM
// // Is it clear in the navigation that this is only for Mule 4? Mule 3 policies don't have a POM or a descriptor. -- Eva?
// // What is POM?
// +
// Defines policy dependencies. Packaging type needs to be `mule-policy`.
// * Resources
// +
// Optionally if the policy depends on other resources, such as a certificate, define resources as part of the policy.
// +
// * Mule-artifact.json descriptor
// +
// Specify the classifier as `mule-policy`.

// For more information, see the header policy.

> == Policy Scope

Reviewer: Before policy scope we should probably have a section for policy category & purpose with a content such as:

"Each policy is categorized based on its purpose, it can be a security type of policy or a policy that ensures quality of service. When a policies are applied, they modify the behavior of an API based on their purpose, refer to the documentation of each policy for better understanding of what the policy does, the configuration options and examples on how to use it. "

(Then on the see also I would add the list to the default policies section)

Author: Done! Thanks!

Policies are isolated from the application and other policies. However, there are ways to expose information from a policy. The authentication information about a policy can be propagated in the Security Context Principal object.

> 

Reviewer: I would add: 

"Some policies, like the token enforcement policy allow propagation of headers including the information related to the token to be used by the implementation service or by the API itself"

Author: Done! Thanks!

// or after it in `operation` policies, those modifications are not propagated by default. To enable propagation of those modifications
// you can enable the `propagateMessageTransformations` flag in each policy.

// *Example*

// ----
// <http-policy:proxy name="scope-payload">
//     <http-policy:source propagateMessageTransformations="true">

//         <http-policy:execute-next/>

//     </http-policy:source>
//     <http-policy:operation propagateMessageTransformations="true">

//         <http-policy:execute-next/>

//     </http-policy:operation>
// </http-policy:proxy>
// ----

// A policy can avoid the execution of the flow by not defining the `execute-next` or making sure that it is not reached (placing it in a choice, for example).

// Variables set on a policy have only the scope of the policy. Also, variables defined in the flow, are not visible in policies.

== Policy Size

The size of a policy varies based on its dependencies. The first time Mule Runtime polls for policies it will take longer to fetch them. However, after policies are retrieved, they are cached on the file system. This ensures offline availability and also reduces latency to fetch policies.

> //Add more information about the policy size.

Reviewer: @chiragnarangmulesoft we have two options here, either hide the policy size, or clrify that this doesn't happen for cloudhub or runtime fabric

Author: Add a comment to clarify with Chirag

//           type: string
//         client_secret:
//           type: string
// ----

// Example: Apply the trait in API operations:

// [source,yaml,linenums]
// ----
// /products:
//   get:
//     is: [client-id-required]
//     description: Gets a list of all the inventory products.
// ----

== Policy Level

Policies implement an additional level of granularity, where access is controlled based on the a criteria, called resource-level policies. 
In this level of granularity, policies are applied to only those request that match the criteria.  All policies, except the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) policy, are resource-level.

//* SLA-based policies
//Impose a limit specified by the level of access granted to the requesting application.The Rate Limiting policy is SLA-based.
// Is SLA based a policy level granularity or a configuration level? because it doesn't change where the policy is applied, just the configuration ( a.k.a limit) - Eva??

//[PA: We need to tell the customers how to work with SLA-tiers for policies right?]
//SLA tiers for me should go somewhere else and link to all the documentation on contracts, request api access and those flows. - Eva?

> Resource level policy support includes RAML and HTTP-based APIs (since Mule 4). A policy applied at a resource level affects all HTTP methods, for example, PUT, GET, POST, or selected HTTP methods, within the resource.

Reviewer: do we want to copy the same info that we have in the resource level policies section? probably a description and then a link on see also section?

Author: Done! Thanks!

image::methods-resources.png[]

You can apply multiple conditions to filter your resources and HTTP methods. The URI template regex can be applied to one, many, or all the methods that your API has. The uses for resource level policies are limitless. Listed below are a few examples of how you might implement the resource-level policies:

* Applying policies to specific resources
* Securing a subset of an API
* Setting different limits on resources

If you have a RAML/OAS spec attached to your API, click Preview Resource Matching to check which resources your filters affect.

== Policies and SLAs

> You create tiers of access, depending on one of the following SLA tiers applied to the application.

Reviewer: We should probably say before that some policies allow to be configured based on an SLA, such as Rate Limiting SLA based policy. And then the explanation.

Author: Done! Thanks!

* A tier that limits the requests to three per minute. No approval required.
* A tier that limits requests to five per minute and requires API Versions Owner approval of the app that wants to access the API.

With SLAs, you limit access to one API resource. Access to other resources are unlimited. When an app attempts to consume the protected resource, the policy is enforced. The request must include the expected user name and password. Repeated calls within SLA limits from the app to the API succeed; others fail.

//SLA tiers should link to all the documentation on contracts, request api access and those flows.

== Policy Lifecycle

// Add content here -- Eva?
// we should have a section on lifecycle to show how to upgraded to latest versions and promote them to do it.

== See Also

* xref:policies-mule3.adoc[Policies in Mule 3]
* xref:policies-mule4.adoc[Policies in Mule 4]
* xref:policies-policy-categories.adoc[Policy Categories]

> * xref:policies-policy-types.adoc[Policy Types]

Reviewer: - Resource level policies
- SLA policies

Author: Done! Thanks!

> = Policies Overview

Reviewer 2: Quick copyedit/proof only from this point onward.

Author: OK! Thanks!

ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:keywords: policy, custom, ootb, offline

> Policies differ based on several different factors, such as category, purpose, version, and configuration options. You must carefully review these factors, before you decide to implementation them in your environment. In this section, each of these factors are explained in detail. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Policies differ based on several different factors, such as category, purpose, version, and configuration options. Carefully consider these factors before you decide to implement them in your environment.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Policy Architecture

Policies are implemented through coordinated communication between the following components:

* API Manager

> * One or more API Gateway Runtimes, or Mule 3.8.0 Runtime or later

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* One or more API gateway runtimes, or Mule runtime engine (Mule) 3.8.0 or later
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * One or more API proxy or API applications

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* One or more API proxies or API applications
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

Using API Manager, you can configure and apply policies to an API instance. An API version can have one or more API instances. +
A specific API instance can also be tied to a specific API implementation endpoint, which can then auto-generate an API proxy application. +

> You can deploy an API Proxy to a Mule runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can deploy an API proxy to a Mule runtime.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Each API proxy application receives requests on HTTP or HTTPS URLs specified by the API. Normally requests are forwarded to the corresponding API implementation endpoint URL, and then the response travels through the API proxy application back to the requesting client application.

Reviewer 2: Do we need every word in "API implementation endpoint URL"?

Reviewer: I would leave it at API implementation

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Policy Injection and Enforcement

> When you deploy an API proxy application for a specific API version to a Mule Runtime, any applied policies in the platform, or offline policies in the runtime, are injected into the API proxy. This changes the behavior of the application. When the proxy application receives a new request, all injected policies are applied to decide if, and how, the request is forwarded to the API implementation endpoint.

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY replace Mule Runtime with either "Mule runtime engine" or "Mule."
These are the only two acceptable names.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you deploy an API proxy application for a specific API version to Mule, any applied policies in the platform or offline policies in the runtime are injected into the API proxy. This changes the behavior of the application. When the proxy application receives a new request, all injected policies are applied to decide if, and how, the request is forwarded to the API implementation endpoint.
```
Can we just use "API endpoint"? Do we have to specify "implementation"?

Author: I kept it as API implementation based on what Eva suggested. Done! Thanks!

> In this way, the actual policy enforcement occurs inside the proxy application itself, minimizing the cross talk between the API proxy, which is processing the received request, the Anypoint Platform agent, and online API Manager. The API proxy application does not require any communication with the Anypoint Platform agent running in the runtime, nor does it require any communication with API Manager.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this way, the actual policy enforcement occurs inside the proxy application itself, minimizing the cross talk among the API proxy (which is processing the received request), the Anypoint Platform agent, and online API Manager. The API proxy application does not require any communication with the Anypoint Platform agent running in the runtime, nor does it require any communication with API Manager.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> However, the Anypoint Platform agent remains connected to API Manager. After policies are reconfigured or removed from API Manager, those policies are downloaded to any connected API Gateway or Mule runtimes, which updates each runtime /policies folder. The policy changes are then again injected into each API proxy application. This allows policies to be dynamically changed without having to redeploy the API proxy application, and without having to restart the API Gateway or Mule runtimes.

Reviewer 2: GLOBALLY lowercase "gateway" in "API gateway."
```suggestion
However, the Anypoint Platform agent remains connected to API Manager. After policies are reconfigured or removed from API Manager, those policies are downloaded to any connected API gateway or Mule runtime engines, which updates each runtime /policies folder. The policy changes are then again injected into each API proxy application. This allows policies to be dynamically changed without having to redeploy the API proxy application and without having to restart the API gateway or Mule runtime engines.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

== Policy Scope

Policies are isolated from the application and other policies. However, there are ways to expose information from a policy. The authentication information about a policy can be propagated in the Security Context Principal object.

> Some policies, such as the token enforcement policy, allow propagation of headers, including the information related to the token. This token is used by the implementation service or by the API itself.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Some policies, such as the Token Enforcement policy, allow propagation of headers, including the information related to the token. This token is used by the implementation service or by the API itself.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

//Eva--add info about the generic policy scope Add an example or link here..Fede Balbi?

== Policy Size

> The size of a policy varies based on its dependencies. The first time Mule Runtime polls for policies it will take longer to fetch them. However, after policies are retrieved, they are cached on the file system. This ensures offline availability and also reduces latency to fetch policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The size of a policy varies based on its dependencies. The first time Mule polls for policies takes longer to fetch them. However, after policies are retrieved, they are cached on the file system. This ensures offline availability and also reduces latency.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

//Add more information about the policy size. we have two options here, either hide the policy size, or clarify that this doesn't happen for cloudhub or runtime fabric--chirag

== Policy Level

> Policies implement an additional level of granularity, where access is controlled based on a criteria. In this level of granularity, policies are applied to only those request that match the criteria.  These polices are known as resource-level policies. All policies, except the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) policy, are resource-level.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Policies implement an additional level of granularity in which access is controlled based on specified criteria. At this level of granularity, policies are applied to only those requests that match the criteria. These policies are known as _resource-level policies_. All policies, except the Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS) policy, are resource-level.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> Resource level policy support includes RAML and HTTP-based APIs (since Mule 4). A policy applied at a resource level affects all HTTP methods, for example, PUT, GET, POST, or selected HTTP methods, within the resource.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Starting with Mule 4, resource-level policy support includes RAML and HTTP-based APIs. A policy applied at a resource level affects all HTTP methods within the resource: PUT, GET, POST, or selected HTTP methods.
```

Reviewer: Same comment as above, is it clear that resource level is also supported in Mule 3 for RAML based APIs?

Author: Yes, Fixed it now! Done! Thanks!

image::methods-resources.png[]

> You can apply multiple conditions to filter your resources and HTTP methods. The URI template regex can be applied to one, many, or all the methods that your API has. The uses for resource level policies are limitless. Listed below are a few examples of how you might implement the resource-level policies:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can apply multiple conditions to filter your resources and HTTP methods. You can also apply the URI template regex to one, many, or all of your API methods. The uses for resource-level policies are limitless; here are just a few:
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

* Applying policies to specific resources
* Securing a subset of an API
* Setting different limits on resources

> If you have a RAML/OAS spec attached to your API, click Preview Resource Matching to check which resources your filters affect.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have a RAML or OAS spec attached to your API, click *Preview Resource Matching* to check which resources your filters affect.
```
I have edited all of this text before; does it appear more than once in this PR? I had comments earlier about WHERE the user is clicking this control.

Author: Done! Thanks! I had to remove it from the overview, which I did now.

== Policies and SLAs

> You can configure specific policies to adhere to predefined SLAs. You create tiers of access depending on one of the following SLA tiers applied to the application:

Reviewer: This section is not right. 

You can configure the Rate Limiting policy to adhere to a predefined SLA. A Service Level Access (SLA) tier is a category of user access that you define for an API. The tier definition combined with an SLA-based policy determines whether access to the API is granted. 

What is listed right now in this section are examples.

Author: I removed the other section and added what you provided here. Thanks! Done!

> * A tier that limits requests to three per minute. No approval required.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A tier that limits requests to three per minute
No approval required.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> * A tier that limits requests to five per minute and requires API Versions Owner approval of the application that wants to access the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A tier that limits requests to five per minute
Requires API version owner approval of the application that wants to access the API.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> With SLAs, you limit access to one API resource. Access to other resources are unlimited. When an app attempts to consume the protected resource, the policy is enforced. The request must include the expected user name and password. Repeated calls within SLA limits from the app to the API succeed; others fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With SLAs, you limit access to only one API resource. Access to other resources is unlimited. When an app attempts to consume the protected resource, the policy is enforced. The request must include the expected user name and password. Repeated calls within SLA limits from the app to the API succeed.
```

Author: Done! Thanks!

> With SLAs, you limit access to one API resource. Access to other resources are unlimited. When an app attempts to consume the protected resource, the policy is enforced. The request must include the expected user name and password. Repeated calls within SLA limits from the app to the API succeed; others fail.

Reviewer: This is also an example and the user name and password is not required, the client id and secret is.

Author: Yes, removed. Done! Thanks!

//SLA tiers should link to all the documentation on contracts, request api access and those flows.

> //== Policy Lifecycle

Reviewer: There is one section that I think we are missing, we can add it later on, but to keep track of it:

- Policies and contracts: this is because some policies require a valid contract between the API and the application in order to grant access to the API or API resource. For instance: client id enforcement, Token Enforcement Policies. 

@priyaayyar could you maybe add a Jira and I can help you providing the content?

Author: Done! Thanks!

// Add content here -- Eva?
// we should have a section on lifecycle to show how to upgraded to latest versions and promote them to do it.

== See Also

> * xref:policies-mule3.adoc[Policies in Mule 3]

Reviewer: Are we adding links to Tiers documentation? e.g.: https://docs.mulesoft.com/api-manager/2.x/api-sla-tiers

Author: Added! Done! Thanks!
